.TH WEBSOCKET_CREATE 3 "2026-06-24" "libhttp2 0.1.0" "libhttp2 Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
websocket_create, websocket_create_with_config, websocket_destroy, websocket_reset \- websocket context lifecycle (client/server roles, configurable event queue)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <websocket.h>

websocket_ctx_t *websocket_create(ws_role_t role);
websocket_ctx_t *websocket_create_with_config(ws_role_t role, const websocket_config_t *config);

void websocket_destroy(websocket_ctx_t *ctx);
void websocket_reset(websocket_ctx_t *ctx);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B websocket_create
allocates and initializes a WebSocket context for the given role (WS_ROLE_CLIENT or WS_ROLE_SERVER). Uses default event queue size (8).

.B websocket_create_with_config
allows caller-specified configuration. The only field currently is \fBevent_queue_size\fP (must be > 0). Returns NULL if config is NULL/invalid or any allocation fails.

.B websocket_destroy
frees the context, its event queue, and any fragment buffers. Safe to call with NULL.

.B websocket_reset
resets internal state (queues, fragments, mask state) without freeing memory. Useful for connection reuse.

All creation follows the configurable initialization pattern preferred for event-driven plumbing libraries.
.SH RETURN VALUES
create* return a valid ctx pointer or NULL on failure. Caller must check before use.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
websocket_config_t cfg = { .event_queue_size = 32 };
websocket_ctx_t *ws = websocket_create_with_config(WS_ROLE_SERVER, &cfg);
if (!ws) { /* handle error */ }
...
websocket_destroy(ws);
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
websocket_next_event(3), websocket_feed_input(3), libhttp2(3), protocol_events.h
.SH NOTES
Contexts are opaque. Use only through the documented API. Event queue size controls backpressure tolerance.